= Easy Roles

Simple rails gem for basic role authorization with ruby on rails.

== Changelog

=== 03 February 2010 - Version 0.4.2
Fixed migration names
Does not allow duplicates to be added

=== 08 December 2009 - Version 0.4.1
Added a bitmask migration generator (Read below for usage)

=== 08 December 2009 - Version 0.4.0
Added the ability to use bitmasks instead of serializing the roles in a table (Read below on how to setup and use)

=== 17 November 2009 - Version 0.3.0
Added a generator to generate the database columns "script/generate easy_roles Table Column_Name"

=== 21 October 2009 - Version 0.2.0
Added bang methods for 'add_role' and 'remove_role' which can be accessed through 'add_role!' and 'remove_role!' respectively.

== Install

  gem install gemcutter
  gem tumble
  gem install easy_roles 
  
or it can be installed as a rails plugin.

  script/plugin install git://github.com/platform45/easy_roles.git
  
== Basic Setup

=== Serialize Method

Add the following to your enviroment.rb in the rails initializer block

  config.gem 'easy_roles', :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'
  
(from version 0.3.0) use the migration generator

  script/generate easy_roles user roles

Or add a "roles" column to your users model, and set the default value to "--- []". Please note you can call this column anything you like, I like to use the name "roles".

  t.string :roles, :default => "--- []"
  
Then you need to add "easy_roles :column_name" to your model.

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    easy_roles :roles
  end
  
=== Bitmask Method

==== WARNING: If you plan on using the column name 'roles' for the bitmask method your getter and setter actions will be 'easy_roles' and 'easy_roles=', instead of 'roles' and 'roles='. I would suggest using 'roles_mask' as your roles column for this method.

Add the following to your enviroment.rb in the rails initializer block

  config.gem 'easy_roles', :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'
  
(from version 0.4.1) use the migration generator to generate the roles column for your users table

  E.G. script/generate easy_bitmask_roles user roles_mask

Or add a "roles_mask" column to your users model of type 'integer', and set the default value to 0. Please note you can call this column anything you like, I like to use the name "roles_mask".

  t.integer :roles_mask, :default => 0
  
Add "easy_roles :column_name, :method => :bitmask" to your model.

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    easy_roles :roles_mask, :method => :bitmask
  end
  
And lastly you need to add a constant variable which stores an array of the different roles for your system. The name of the constant must be the name of your column in full caps.

==== WARNING: Bitmask storage relies that you DO NOT change the order of your array of roles, if you need to add a new role, just append it to the end of the array.

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    easy_roles :roles_mask, :method => :bitmask
    
    # Constant variable storing roles in the system
    ROLES_MASK = %w[admin moderator user]
  end

== Usage

Easy roles extends your model, and adds a few methods needed for basic role authorization.

adding a role to a user
  add_role 'role'
  
removing a role from a user
  remove_role 'role'
  
check to see if a user has a certain role
  has_role? 'role'
  # or
  is_role? # role being anything you like, for example 'is_admin?' or 'is_awesome?'
  
For every method above there is a bang method too.
  add_role! 'role'
  remove_role! 'role'
  
== Examples

  @user = User.first
  
  @user.add_role 'admin'
  
  @user.is_admin?
  => true
  
  @user.has_role? 'admin'
  => true
  
  @user.is_awesome?
  => false
  
  @user.add_role 'awesome'
  
  @user.is_awesome?
  => true
  
  @user.remove_role 'admin'
  
  @user.is_admin?
  => false
  
  etc etc

== Protecting controllers

There are many ways to implement views for specific roles, so I did not specifically supply one. Here's an example on what you could do:

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base

     def admin_required
       unless current_user && current_user.is_admin?
         flash[:error] = "Sorry, you don't have access to that."
         redirect_to root_url and return false
       end
     end
   
  end

Then in your AdminsController or any controller that you only want admins to view:

  class AdminsController < ApplicationController
     before_filter :admin_required
  end
  
  class MarksController < ApplicationController
     before_filter :admin_required, :only => :create, :update
  end

Check out http://blog.platform45.com/2009/10/05/howto-basic-roles-for-users for implementation, and http://blog.platform45.com/2009/10/07/easy-roles-gem-released for usage.

Follow me on twitter: http://twitter.com/ryan_za

Email: ryan *at* platform45.com


== License

Copyright (c) 2009 Platform45

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.